Dead Men’s Tales - A Long Last Night

Player fredom entails players pushing the absolute most morally dark boundries, figure out a way to condemn it without restricting the freedom, abuse of people, and especially younger ones will result in almost all traders refusing to trade with you, kings ordering his soldiers to keep an eye out for you, and if they see you they will relentlessly attack you to kill you, powerful bounty hunters will set out to hunt you down, the parents of the younger abused ones will pray to the Pale One, who will send the most powerful entity out he has in his reserve, to annihilate your soul, which, if he succeeds, will slay you without any chance of reincarnation, not even through the Dark One, which result in a irreversible game over, which will also delete your savefile
Before you do it, warning:
„I am about to commit an unforgivable deed. The whole world will hate me and try to hunt me down. Am I sure, that I am THAT evil?“
If you carry forth, this happens: Negative permanent trait aquired:
Unforgivable Deed: „You’ve abandoned your humanity and are now locked out of some options. You are permanently restricted to the Mind-State „Pathetic Evil“ and the Pale One grew such an anger, that even the Dark One won’t be able to defend you. Was it worth it?“

This is game is all about complete freedom, aiming for the most freedom an rpg has ever granted, doing whatever you want, whenever you want, but you have to live with the consequences (and a ruined save maybe).
One thing this entails, is that if you have enough charisma/empathy and luck, you can make any character you want a companion. The offer can only made once in your entire lifetime though, so if you want a king to abandon his position and become your companion, you better put all your stats and luck to good use.
You could, if you want play the entire game in a pacifist run, without killing or even batteling a single character.

When achieving a mind sum of max you get blessed by the Pure one himself, who grants you the mindset of Absolute Pale Justice, which grants you the one time skill to resurrect any person you want, no matter how long said person was dead and grant that person immortality. You can then make that immortal person your companion.
A passive side effect, is that once per every battle, instead of dying, you will get resurrected by the Pale One, with 25% of your health, grant and stamina (no matter how much it was beforehand)

When achieving a mind sum of min you get cursed by the Dark One himself, who grants you the mindset of Ultimate Prime Evil, which grants you the one time skill to immediately kill any person/enemy, no matter how strong, how much health etc and grant you the soul of the killed person, which you can then summon, once per battle for the duration of the battle (or when it is slain), with all his equipment, skill and stats.
A passive side effect, is that you will no longer get chased by the Demons of the Dark One, when cheating him for grant by drinking the Forbidden Concoction.

there is a chance to flee, and before your health reaches 0 sometimes your character can pass out that opens other immersive options as well
a) if you are female the world is an even more horrible place, and as a result if your character passes out, there’s a chance the opponent if he has a dark mind, will physically abuse you, which will leave mental scars in your character and result in negative traits, there’s a chance though for your character to track your abusers down and get revenge which can result in a permanent boost in stats and positive traits
b)
c)
d)
e)

if you get killed in dead mens tales it isnt just a simple save restore, there are a few immersive things that happen to you if you hit 0 hp.
a) you die and get resurrected by the dark one and he takes away some of your exp (can even level you down) as an exchange
b) you are dead, get robbed and lose items or gold and then get ressurected, out of pity, the dark one doesn’t rob you exp as a favor
c) someone saves and nurishes you which opens a lot of different options with said npc
d)
e)
f)
g)

If someone manages to concoct the Forbidden Concoction (which is a skill that can be learned when you learn natural synergy) which allows to gain grant without sacrificing life force, the dark one will feel betrayed and send his dark demon minions to hunt you down. you can lower the chance of detection when using these concoctions.
if you indeed trigger the dark ones wrath, he blocks you out of the pool where he grants you his power and you cant replenish grant anymore, until you
	a) defeat the demons and thus gain his respect and he allows you to gain grant again
	b) get killed by the demons who then afterwards steal even more xp than the dark one does, sometimes even enough to level you down 1-3 levels
	c) you kill an innocent or important person the dark one wants dead, which in return can make an entire village or even country hostile towards you
	d)
	e)
	f)

the crux with option a is that everytime you betray him again the demons he sends after you get stronger everytime.

If a player wants to consume these concoctions theres a warning when he wants to drink it for the first time (and its in the description) that if you take a sip of this item, it may draw attention of incredibly strong beings that will hunt you down and torment your fate.

The Player and certain NPCs are called Peculiars, when they both have the ability to level up, get full attributes and can aquire skills and traits.

if player always manages to forfeit the long last night, it gets pushed many many years back, but the impending doom always lingering above humanities head. The long last night is the comeback of the banished dark lord, the day where no light will ever come back. He is one day going to come back, it's 100% sure. But the day can be pushed back as long there are heros willing to do it. Over the years people forgot about magic of the dark dimension and the prophecy so secret socities arose battling each other over dominance and people in favor of the dark lord who will do anything for him to come back, and those who are against it, silently protecting humanity. the ways to delay the long last night always lose functionality after its use so the way to forfeit it, always changes randomly. the pure invented many many failsafes to be sure that the pale cant get back. every tale there is a new type of failsafe to be examined. if a failsafe is destroyed, the dark lord will be unleashed, if the failsafe is sealed, that failsafe loses its purpose and is destroyed without any effect.

important feature are dozens of illnesses, affecting gameplay, stats etc. diseases mutate and thus circumvent therapy and immunity

civic beliefs influence dialouge

storyline on one single planet (later on its moons)

each storyline plays in a different ascending era, important decisions made in the era beforehand has huge results on the consecutive eras
(player can choose in every era, if he wants to play with own savegame or start anew)

The world was formed, after an eon of battle between the pale and the pure. The pure won and sealed the pale into a dimension, where he was now since known as the dark lord. The dark lord is so damaged by the battle, that he grants humans his dark powers to manipulate the world, so they sacrifice their health, so that he can regain his strength. Grant does not regenerate naturally, it has to be aquired with sacrificing health, everytime. But as more grant you aquire and more transcendence you have, the more grant you get for the same amount of health, as you prove yourself more and more towards the dark lord.

The only magical powers stem from the Dark Lord, as he is the only entity influencing human life as the Pure doesn’t want to have anything to do with humans.

First question in game selection: Do you want to begin from anew and shape the world from it’s birth onward, or start at the Iron Tale with randomized pre-conditions (Spoiler!)?

I. The First Tale: Primal Instinct

II. The Second Tale: Dawn of Civilization
black and white statues all over the world, depicting the legends and prophecies of the pure and the pale, or the light king and the dark lord (people think black is the dark lord, and light king is white, but its the other way around! pale = white, pure = black)
the white statues all over the world, talk to the protagonist and offer him his services, if the player accepts, the statue will follow and guide him through the whole adventure, not telling him, he is speaking through the dark lord, who is trying to manipulate the player to break the failsafe of this era, if the player declines the player will encounter multiple strong enemies, trying to kill him in motivation to stop him from activating the fail safe)
failsafe: The Tower of Light

III. The Great Tale: Age of the Sea
IV. The Iron Tale: Accursed Times

V. The Death Tale: Plagued
can be avoided
world suffered major loss in life
setback for hundred of years of development

VI. The Risen Tale: Rise of the Industry
VII. The Old Tale: A Fragile Peace

VIII. The Forbidden Tale: ???
can be avoided
if world war in eigth tale, can’t be averted, the war will descend into absolute and utter chaos, caused by weapons of mass destruction, locking out the last two tales
none known failsafe, battle between both entities ensue

XI. The New Tale: A Strange World
failsafe: The pale lady

X. The Last Tale: Two Sisters
failsafe: both moons
player gets to decide ending influenced by decisions made in every era.
blow up both moons to seal, keep both moons and protect them forever,

conjuration magic in the series, is the feeble leeching of a dimension full of stellar power. The only way for a person to reach these powers, is transcending mortal mind, seeing beyond human planes. the more grant you have, the more easily you can access said powers, humans individually have a certain amount of grant, because the powers you use, are only lend by the dark lord. The more powers humans use, the stronger the dark lord residing in the dimension lending those powers to humans becomes. You can extend your grant, by sacrificing your health to the dark lord, so he can heal.
Utilizing grant will lead towards a dark path, locking you out of certain mind-states and skills.

main character is with high probablity going to die at the end (can be avoided)

Scythe of the wise
Negates the self dealing damage of the scythe of the fool, but also lowers crit damage

Scythe of the fool
Man accidentally killed himself with allegedly cursed scythe
Scythe completely randomly crits exceptional crit damage, but with the chance dealing half the damage on yourself

Static current
By alternatly heating and cooling local air, static current is being build up around the user, electrifying his attacks for a short brief of time

Concussive Shot
A mighty blow of fulminating air, hitting hard and having a chance of knocking out an opponent

Death Grip

Fist of Doom

Howling Split

Bone Break

Galactic Rift

Stellar Fissure

Chasm